Q1
Rick and Morty S02E09 Look Whos Purging Now - Rick and Morty defend Arthrisha's Grandma's hut while calling Summer on the space phone (and Jerry think's it's Taddy Mason)

In VR the first thing you need is a way for the player to move. The standard thumbstick or wasd style movement of many first person games doesn't work well in VR because the player's equilibrium tells the person that their body is not accelerating while the headset (convincing/immersive images and sounds) tell them that they are moving. These conflicting signals often make people nauseous. Many different games have experimented with other methods of game motion, the most common being teleportation. Teleportation does not suggest any acceleration (forces acting on the fluid in your inner ear), since the movement is instantaneous.

You'd need a system that spawns Amish purgers. Maybe when one is killed it spawns more, and also keeps track of how many have died and procedurally assigns certain weapons, masks body types as it spawns them. It would set variables or something to keep track of milestones so that other scripts will know if this is wave 1, 2, 3, or a boss wave of some type.

Next you'd need a high level piece of code that keeps track of the flow of the game, it tracks major events, waits for a "cutscene" to end and then it triggers other scripts. It keeps track of storyline progress and turns other elements on and off as needed. It probably also triggers story based animations and voicelines. For instance if the first wave of enemies has finished, trigger some animations or voice lines from Summer or Jerry prodding the story forward "OK, I found a pen, whats the number?", have Jerry continually say things about Taddy Mason during the actual waves. 

You'd need a system that moves the enemies and tells them when to attack, so you may have some sort of A* pathfinding for the enemies, and a script that tells them to attack when they are within range. They would also need some sort of hitbox/collider that can receive damage from the player's attacks and kill them when they've taken fatal damage. 

You would need a gun mechanic that allows the player to pickup a gun with their controller and fire it, reload it, throw it. And you'd need to be able to sense where the "bullets" are going and make sure they deal damage through the enemy's controller scripts.

Lastly you would need some sort of body collider type thing that estimates where the player's body is and uses the player's head and hands to see if any of the enemy attacks are hitting. If they are it needs to hold all stats about the player, what they are holding, how much health they have, maybe even check if they are sticking their head through a wall and do something appropriate, like move the player away or blur it so that they can't see through the level.

If you'd want to follow through the rest of the episode I'd also say maybe add a part where the player has to sit still and stare at the NPC reading his tale in the lighthouse. You'd need a system to track the player's head movement and only have the NPC continue reading while you're sitting completely still staring at him. If you look away he complains that you're not listening. This would be boring but funny. One other thing I'd add is the scene where you're wearing Ironman suits because that would be a badass VR Game mechanic if you did it right. You might need to try a few experiments to find out what systems to use, although I suspect you would need to treat the suit as a vehicle and make sure the player always has some peripheral view of the helmet so that there is a way to anchor them to a "vehicle"